Five digit quotations.
So now we've got a new system in the 4 X market has been around for a couple of years now.
The precision of price quotations is getting better and now most brokers actually supply quotations
in five in a five digit mode.
So here that quotation we are talking about Australian British pound the Strand dollar 1.8 5:52 now
is actually more precise and it's 1.8 8 6 6 3.
So now the change the minimum change this currency can experience is actually 0.00 0 1.
So tend to power of negative 5.
Now let's understand how the definitions of pips and points have changed in this particular case when
the five digits have system has been introduced.
So the change is still called 1.0 change is always called one point.
Now the value on the right is zero point zero zero zero zero one has been labeled with the name pipette
.
Once again let's keep these things separate.
One point is the minimum change and one pet is always equal to zero point zero zero zero zero 1.
In this case it just so happens that minimum change is equal to $0.00 or one.
And that means one point is equal to one pet and that's always the case for five digit price quotations
.
So once again let's calculate the spread here have shown our previous example but I've added the fifth
digit as a smaller number and a lot of brokers do that just to show that it is five digit quotations
because when you have five digits after the decimal point it can be you can get a bit confusing and
like a lot of numbers.
So here it's highlights to you that these are in fact pipettes and the end of the current quotations
.
So the the difference of the asking price in this case is zero point zero zero zero six five units of
the quoted currency which is trillion dollar and that equals to 65 points.
So let's remember that even in the five digit quotation system a point is the minimum change that the
currency can experience.
In this case the minimum change is 0.0 0 0 0 or 1.
And if you multiply that by at 65 then you will get your spread.
So the spread of 65 points on the other hand the spread is approximately seven Pips you can say six
and a half perhaps you can say seven pips.
Doesn't really matter.
It's approximately sound pips because a pip is still zero point zero zero zero one just as it was in
the four digit system.
It's not going to change because we change the system that we're quoting the currency paper is fixed
the prepared is fixed so this spread is approximately seven pips and that is you can also say that the
spread is 65 pipettes I would advise you not to use the word pads because not many people understand
you.
Like I never use it.
Nobody ever uses it.
It's a it's a very kind of new term or very very little used term it just sounds fun.
To be honest.
So just stick with points and Pips.
So just to sum up we've got the four digit system with the five digit system.
An example is the British pound straight and dollar quotation that we looked at 1.8 8 6 6 in the four
digits one point 8 8 6 6 3 in the five digits.
One point in the four digit.
One point is always the minimum change in the four digits system it's zero point zero zero zero one
and the five digits system it's zero point 0 0 0 0 1 a pip never changes a pip is always fixed regardless
of the quotation system and it equals zero point zero zero zero one and a prepared.
There's no such a thing in the four digit system.
And in the five digit system there because there's enough precision you can talk about pipettes and
it's $0.00 or 1.
However you are advised not to use this term because it's not frequently used.
So you will notice that some traders out there get this mixed up and actually some respectable traders
can get this mixed up because this is terminology and it of course depends on the conventions and like
the people well how people agree to talk to each other and use these things.
But most traders will use this system.
So if you come across a forum where perhaps even everybody uses them wrong and confuses people point
or something like that well then you either have to re-educate those people or adjust to their kind
of style but just keep in mind that majority of traders around the world will talk about these things
in exactly this way.
And before we finish up a quick note on Japanese currency pairs as promised.
So if a currency pair is quoted in Japanese yen meaning that the Japanese yen is on the right you will
see that everything is shifted by approximately or exactly 100 so there is not a four digit system there's
not four digits but two digits after the decimal point in the five digits is only three digits.
So all everything else stays exactly the same.
Just multiply everything by 100 and that has been associated with the way the Japanese yen has historically
been priced.
For instance right now one American dollar can buy you a 100 in a teen Japanese yen